In the previous video, we already configure an
ip address in router1 and router2.
Next in this video, we are going to talk about routing.
I have a question, is pc 1 able to communicate with pc 2?
Let’s try it, check the ip address first,
pc 2 is correct, pc 1 is also correct. Now
let’s ping from pc 1 to pc 2, ping 192.168.2.10,
okay here we can see the result
is destination host unreachable,
this is means that the ping is failed.
Now let’s see why this is failed. When pc 1 ping
to pc 2, the source is 192.168.1.10,
and the destination is 192.168.2.10, pc 1 will ask router 1,
"hey router 1, do you know where is 192.168.2.10?"
When router 1 receive the question,
router 1 will check the routing table,
let’s check it, do show ip route, here we can
see that router 1 don’t know about 192.168.2.10
Router 1 only have an information about
10.10.10.0/24 and 192.168.1.0/24. This two network
is automatically added to routing table with label
c, because this 2 network is connected to router 1.
10.10.10.0/24 is connected in fa0/1, and
192.168.1.0/24 is connected in fa0/0.
Let’s write the routing table in router 1,
Okay, this is why pc 1 can not ping to pc 2,
because router 1 don’t know where is 192.168.2.10.
This is also same if we try
to ping from pc 2 to pc 1,
the source is 192.168.2.10 and
the destination is 192.168.1.10,
so pc 2 will ask router 2, "hey router 2
do you know where is 192.168.1.10?"
Router 2 don’t know about 192.168.1.10,
why? Because if we see here in the topology,
router 2 will have 2 entry in the routing table,
which is 10.10.10.0/24 connected to fa0/0,
and 192.168.2.0/24 connected to fa0/1.
Let’s check it, do show ip route, okay here
we can see that we only have an information
about 10.10.10.0/24 and 192.168.2.0/24,
router 2 don’t know about 192.168.1.0/24
So now we need to configure a routing so
pc 1 will able to communicate with pc 2.
In this case we will learn
about static routing first.
Later in the next video, we will
also learn about dynamic routing.
Okay, so let’s focus on static routing.
With static routing, we will tell the
router how to reach destination.
For example we will tell router 1, if router 1 want to go
to 192.168.2.10, router 1 should go to router 2.
And router 2, if want to go to
192.168.1.10, router 2 should go to router 1.
Let’s just start, we will configure router1 first.
Ip route and then the destination network, in
this case we want to tell router 1 how to reach
192.168.2.0/24, so the destination network is
192.168.2.0 and the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0
Next we need to define the next hop. If we see
here, if router 1 want to go to 192.168.2.0/24,
absolutely router 1 will go through router 2.
So the next hop is the ip address of router 2,
which is 10.10.10.2. so here let’s put
the router 2 ip address, 10.10.10.2.
In simple word, this command means that
we tell router 1, if router 1 want to go to
192.168.2.0/24, router 1 should go
through 10.10.10.2, which is router 2.
Let’s check the routing table
again, do show ip route,
here we can see that now we have route to
192.168.2.0/24 and the next hop is 10.10.10.2
S here means static routing.
Okay we have done in router 1,
next, let’s configure on router 2.
From router 2, we want to tell how to go to pc 1,
so ip route the destination network is
192.168.1.0 and the subnetmask is 255.255.255.0,
and then the gateway is the ip address
of router 1, which is 10.10.10.1.
Okay now let’s see the routing table, do show
ip route, here we can see that now we have S,
this is means static routing, the destination is
192.168.1.0/24 and the next hop is 10.10.10.1.
Now pc 1 and pc 2 should be able to
communicate each others. Let’s try.
Okay here we can see that
now the result is success.
Okay I think enough for this video. I hope you understand about routing static.
In the next video, we are going to add 1 more
router, and then we will learn how to configure
static routing in 3 router.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.